# CSS inclusion via style files that import themes

Date: 2023-04-17

Deciders: Abban Dunne, Corinna Hillebrand, Gabriel Birke, Tanuja D.

## Status

Accepted

## Context

For our banners we have the following requirements

- The styles for each banner must be bundled as a theme, consisting of CSS files for all of its components.
- We must keep banner size to a minimum. Each banner must only use the theme styles for the components it actually uses and only from one theme. 
- All themes should share common layout styles for each component to avoid duplication.
- A banner test (i.e. `ctrl` and `var` banner in a channel) must be able to use different styles with as little duplication as possible.
- We want to have a clear  and reliable override hierarchy of styles:
  1. Layout styles from components
  2. Theme styles from theme
  3. Individual tweaks for channels or even single banners
- The styling difference for a banner should be discernible by looking at the files and via `diff`.
- As developers, we want to keep the effort of tracking which styles to include as low as possible.

## Decision

1. We import the style file in the entry point.
2. Each channel will have a style file that consists of `@use` statements that import the CSS classes for the components of a specific theme.
3. A channel *may* have an additional style file for the variant banner.
4. Each component will have a layout SCSS files that provides the layout as a mixin. Each theme file for a component should include that mixin
   (except for cases where the mixins make no sense).
5. We don't use `<style>` sections in our Vue Single-File-Components (SFCs).

This setup is necessitated by the bundler, which bundles the entry point imports first and then adds the bundled `<style>`
sections from the components after. If we used `<style>` sections for layout styles, they would override the template 
styles which is the wrong way around.

### Other options considered

We tried to think of other options that would allow us to keep the layout styles in the `<style>` sections of the components,
but did not find any option that would satisfy our requirements better.

The only requirement that is better served by using `<style>` sections is developer convenience because the components 
would be more "idiomatic" (single-file-components with external styles are not widely used) and not having to explicitly import 
styles for components that have no theme file eases the pain of "double bookkeeping"
(tracking which components are used in a banner and adding their theme files instead relying purely on component imports). 

#### Using different top-level components 
Most of our banner A/B tests use two different top-level components that wire all banner components together,
e.g. `BannerCtrl` and `BannerVar`. We could import different style files in the `<style>` section of these components
The default behavior of the bundler is to bundle the component styles first and then add the imported template styles after. 

**Con:** Relying on undocumented bundler behavior is confusing for developers, because the `@use` statement comes first,
but bundler *prepends* the styles from the components to the imported styles. 

#### Passing the name of the style file from the entry point
This does not seem to be possible, SASS `@use` statements can't be dynamic and must use a static URL.

#### Webpack plugin
Components could have a `@use 'theme';` part in their style section and rely on a custom webpack plugin that reads
the theme name from the campaign configuration and then resolves the `theme` module to different folders for the
different channels. We rejected this idea because we deemed it "too magic" and shied away from the effort to develop
the plugin.

## Consequences

- All style imports are in one place
- Our Single-File-Components don't use Vue's `<style>` feature
